# Assessment-Component-2-Q1
Version control systems prove to be very useful in helping to keep code, and documents in general, manageable for software developers. 
One advantage of a version control system is the ability to create branches and then merge them to your main document/repository. Branches allow for developers to create a duplicate version of the repository that they can then work on without affecting the original repository. This gives the advantage of multiple developers being able to work on the same piece of work at the same time, they can then merge their changes back to the main repository. When merging, the version control system will make you aware of any conflicts that need to be dealt with before the merge can happen. This makes working on large projects within sizable teams easier and allows for greater control over documents.
Another advantage of using a version control system is that you can always revert to earlier versions of your documents. This, for example, allows for a developer who is trying to implement new code to a program, to compare their code with the previous working version. Comparing your new code with the old code can make debugging a good bit easier as you highlight exactly where and when your code started having issues. If the problems you're having become too complex you also have the option to discard the version you have been working on and go back to an earlier version with no problems, avoiding starting a new program from scratch.
A third advantage of version control systems is that it makes collaboration with other developers or team members much easier. This is because it provides a centralised environment within which all of your teams documents can be stored, avoiding the obvious inefficiency of having to ask people for the code they have been working on and having to wait for them to see your emails and reply. With a version control system, you can simply go to the repository and look at all of the up-to-date components of the project you need to see.
In comparison with the most basic form of version control, which would be a simple renaming of documents to including the version number (e.g. doc 1, doc 1.1), the use of a version control system has many advantages. It allows you to analyse each change being made where name-dating does not and it is much easier to revert back to previous versions than with name dating as you would need to go back and look through to find specific dates.
In conclusion there are many advantages to using a version control system. All these advantages together make the life of a developer, whether in a team or working on their own, much easier and saves a lot of headaches. It gives much more control over documents and increases overall efficiency by a large amount through keeping a detailed record of all changes made, when they were made and who made them.

